---
layout: post
title: "Visualizing Divvy Trips + Inequality (?) in Chicago"
---
This page holds the visualizations I made for the final assignment in
the Spring 2023 offering of MACS 30113 at the University of Chicago.
We practiced PySpark and visualization of big data in this assignment.

<h2>Overview</h2>
<p> The interactive map below highlights all trips taken via Divvy in Q3 (July - September)
of 2018. Each shaded blue area corresponds to one of the
<a href="https://www.chicago.gov/content/dam/city/depts/dgs/InformationTechnology/GIS/MapBook_Community_Areas.pdf">community areas</a>
of Chicago, and each dot corresponds to a Divvy station. Hover over a station to see the relevant statistics associated with
Divvy trips starting from that station: <br>
<ul>
 <li><b>Station Name</b>: Name of the Divvy station.</li>
 <li><b>Docks in Service</b>: Number of bike docks in service.</li>
 <li><b>Trip Count</b>: Total number of trips starting from station in Q3 2018.</li>
 <li><b>Trip Count (Normalized)</b>: Trip count divided by number of docks in service.</li>
</ul>
<br>
The "normalized" trip count measure tries to account for the fact that stations with high trip counts
might just have more bikes available to take trips on. It does this by dividing the total trip count by
number of total bike docks available at a station, to create a trip count measure in standardized units
of trips per bike.
</p>

<p>
Yellow and green correspond to the highest normalized trip counts, and blue and purple correspond
the lowest. One takeaway from the map is that Divvy trips are the most frequent in the Loop (no surprise),
and on the North Side. They are the least frequent on the South, Southwest, and West Sides of Chicago.
You can read more about this in my README file for the assignment.
</p>


<div class="container">

    <iframe width="200%" height="900" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="{{ 'assets/divvy_trips_q3_2018_map.html' | relative_url }}"></iframe>

</div> <!-- /.container -->

<p>
Here is an additional fun bonus visualization of a week in the life of an average Divvy bike. I created a timelapse gif to track Divvy bike 3205
on its journey during the week of July 1 to July 8, 2018. I selected bike 3205 because it starts the day on July 1 from
the Ellis & 55th Divvy station, my local station when I used Divvy to commute to class during my first year of graduate school
at the University of Chicago.
</p>

<div class="container" align="center">
    <iframe width="50%" height="900" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="{{ 'bike_3205.gif' | relative_url }}"></iframe>
</div> <!-- /.container -->
